---
layout: post
title:  "I'm Back"
date:   2020-10-03 19:56:31 +0100
tags: Thinking-Out-Loud
---

Hi, I am back and will start creating and publishing content for this blog again. I have been away mostly due to finishing my Masters thesis, taking a little time off and changing jobs in August, I moved from Liberty IT to Workday and I am happy to say it was a great move. I had a great experience in Liberty IT and would probably not be where I am now if it was not for my 4 and a bit years there. The was they treat their staff and encourage growth was a real eye opener for me after coming from a semi-state organisation where things were let us say slower moving. I have settled in and learned a lot already with so much more ahead of me.

I feel I have capacity to get a couple of side projects going and so have ordered an Intel NUC for a home lab starter. Having just finished up a hackaton for VMWorld 2020 which was fully remote, I'm spured on to get involved. The hackaton introduced me to a new project AsBuiltReports, whick we worked on, and which has some real potential to solve some problems I deal with professionally. Then there are the fun projcts like ESXi for Arm, so I'll probably be getting a Rasberry Pi 4 8GB version as a tiny host for the lab. I can't really imagine what'll run on that but the plan is to find out. Kubernetes on VMware is also a must to get hands on with soon. So I'm sure i'll find someway to merge all those into a project to write about.

Excited to be back. Thanks for reading.
Conor